PAUT NETERU (Kemetic)
Ancient "Egyptian" Tree of Life.

↋. Amen - Peace from conditioned responses. No automatic emotional responses, only peace. Must approach all situations from an unemotional standpoint.
    They must learn to know the Creator, not believe in a Creator. Knowing requires proof. Understanding the difference between subjectivity (belief) and objectivity (proof). Difference between belief and knowledge of the Creator.
    +↋. They refused to be conditioned in any way. They create their own rules in life. They seek peace to such an extent that they may shut out all emotions. They may seek the undifferenciated state to such a point that they shun the rest of society.
    -↋. They assume too much. This is due to using belief as proof. Highly emotional reactions. These people lack inner peace and constantly feel like they are in hell.

1. Ausar - Unity, achieving goals, companionship. "No man is an island." Overcoming the differences of others. Becoming one with all while individuating the self - selflessness. No preferences, equal to all people and events.
    -1. They see events going against them. Cannot overcome differences with others. Thinks it is above or below others.

2. Tefuti - The inner drive of knowledge. The knowledge of good and evil. Knowing the value of things and placing them in a correct hierarchial order. Understanding one's values in life to make correct judgments. Knowledge of the sciences, from which the Creator can be ascertained.
    -2. Does not understand the difference between good and evil. Uses knowledge to make itself look like the creator of its life. Fears being judged. Their thoughts, feelings and actions do not reflect the creator or their own true intent, creating liars, deceivers and hypocrites.

3. Sekher - Metaphysical power creating the physical hologram. Using psychic power to overcome physical limitations. Using emotions to manipulate physical events.
    +3. They have a great capacity to do work.
    -3. Manipulates the emotions of others to serve their own selfish interests. Conducts magic rituals to summon entites in order to obtain spiritual power for themselves. They desire the spiritual power of the world in order to control others. Uses emotion against the will of others for their own selfish desires.

4. Maat - The Law of the Creator. Harmony with nature. Interdependence over codependence. Love as the creation force of the universe. Giving while seeking nothing in return. Love created by matching peace in the face of opposition.
    +4. They show love to all who oppose them. The more opposition they face wih love, the greater their power becomes.
    -4. "Making love" is confused for sex and affection. Does not understand spiritual love. Constantly expects something for their efforts. Engages and prolongs conflict without understanding how love is generated in the first place.

5. Herukhuti - The law of karma.

6. Heru - Will power. Choice. Choosing to obtain real happiness through the painful responsibilities required, or chasing happiness through pleasure while ignoring pain. Allowing one's inner garbage to be collected and "sacrificed" to the Creator. Obtaining the will power necessary in order to do this, or no will power and going along with the flow of animal pleasures. Uses will power to transcend the emotions and thoughts of animal pleasures to obtain spiritual wisdom and peace.
    +6. Very willful people. Refuses to listen to their emotions. Has a hard time enjoying life.
    -6. Lacks conviction. Confuses will with desire. Weak will power is easily swayed by material pleasures. Gives in and follows emotions that proves detrimental to their well being. Reasons with their mind, but understands little. They think they cannot ignore their emotions and must act upon them. They willfully violate the 11 laws for their own selfish pleasure, and by doing so bring evil into the world.

7. Hetheru - Imagination. Controlling imagination with the will. How to react in a situation. Imagery programming behavior through calling emotions. Learning to visualize with the imagination to receive what one wants in material reality by identifying emotions in tune with one's peace.
    +7. Discriminates which visual imagery it allows its imagination to use.
    -7. Unaware that the imagination is a programming tool to program behavior. They accept any imagery that comes to mind without discrimination, resulting in detrimental situations that go against what they really want in life. Imagination controls their life. They imagine themselves in the worst states and manifest that reality. Very negative manifestations.

8. Sebek - Verbal thinking.

9. Auset - Receptivity. Programming in the correct state of mind. Emotional commitment.

↊. Geb - Body. Proving ground of ideas first willed by Ausar.
